API-928: add jenkins release automation docs (#1682)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/collections/_documentation/workflow/releases/release-automation/jenkins/index.md

---
title: Jenkins
sidebar_order: 0

---

This guide walks you through the process of automating Sentry release management and deploy notifications in Jenkins. After deploying in Jenkins, you'll be able to identify suspect commits that are likely the culprit for new errors. You'll also be able to apply source maps to see the original code in Sentry.

Before starting, confirm that your Sentry project is properly set up to track commit metadata. The easiest method to do so is to [install a repository integration]({%- link _documentation/workflow/releases/index.md -%}#install-repo-integration). Once that's installed, and you've added your repository, come back to this guide. If you've already installed a repository integration, you're ready to go.

## Create a Sentry Internal Integration

For Jenkins to communicate securely with Sentry, you'll need to create a new internal integration. In Sentry, navigate to **Settings > Developer Settings > New Internal Integration**.

> Give your new integration a name (for example, “Jenkins Deploy Integration”) and specify the necessary permissions. In this case, we need Admin access for “Release” and Read access for “Organization”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Give your new integration a name (for example, “Jenkins Deploy Integration”) and specify the necessary permissions. In this case, you need Admin access for “Release” and Read access for “Organization”.
```

See our [docs page on permissions]({%- link _documentation/api/permissions.md -%}) to learn more about scopes for Sentry’s API endpoints.

[{% asset releases/jenkins/internal-integration-permissions.png alt="View of internal integration permissions." %}]({% asset releases/jenkins/internal-integration-permissions.png @path %})

Click “Save” at the bottom of the page and grab your token, which you'll need this in the next step.

## Add Token to Jenkins Credentials

To access our internal integration token securely in Jenkins, store it as a [credential](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/using/using-credentials/):

> 1. From the Jenkins home page (the Dashboard of the classic Jenkins UI), click **Credentials > System**.

Author: We don't know the url since it'll often be hosted by the user.

2. Under **System**, click the **Global credentials (unrestricted)** link to access this default domain.
3. Click **Add Credentials**.
4. From the **Kind** field select Secret Text.
5. Give your credential an **ID** (for example, "sentry-auth-token") and in the **Secret** field paste your internal integration token.
6. Click **OK** to save the credentials.

[{% asset releases/jenkins/jenkins-add-credential.png alt="View of Jenkins add credentials." %}]({% asset releases/jenkins/jenkins-add-credential.png @path %})

## Notify Sentry of Deployment

> Depending on what type of Jenkins project you are using to build and deploy, you want to follow different steps:

Reviewer: Updating to make the contraction consistent with the rest of docs and this page.
```suggestion
Depending on what type of Jenkins project you're using to build and deploy, you want to follow different steps:
```

- [Pipeline (Jenkinsfile)]({%- link _documentation/workflow/releases/release-automation/jenkins/index.md -%}#pipeline)
- [Freestyle project]({%- link _documentation/workflow/releases/release-automation/jenkins/index.md -%}#freestyle-project)

> For more detailed information on release management concepts below, see our [release management docs]({%- link _documentation/cli/releases.md -%}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details about the release management concepts below, see the full documentation on [release management]({%- link _documentation/cli/releases.md -%}).
```

### Pipeline

> If you are using a Jenkins pipeline, you need to add a new stage with the following snippet after your deploy stage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using a Jenkins pipeline, you need to add a new stage with the following snippet after your deploy stage:
```

            } 
            steps {
                // Install Sentry CLI
                sh 'curl -sL https://sentry.io/get-cli/ | bash'

                sh '''
                    export SENTRY_RELEASE=$(sentry-cli releases propose-version)
                    sentry-cli releases new -p $SENTRY_PROJECT $SENTRY_RELEASE
                    sentry-cli releases set-commits $SENTRY_RELEASE --auto
                    sentry-cli releases files $SENTRY_RELEASE upload-sourcemaps path-to-sourcemaps-if-applicable
                    sentry-cli releases finalize $SENTRY_RELEASE
                    sentry-cli releases deploys $SENTRY_RELEASE new -e $SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT
                '''
            }
        }
    }
}
```

**Notes**: 

- If you're not deploying a JavaScript project, omit the `upload-sourcemaps` line.
- If you can't install a repository integration, omit the `set-commits` line.
- `credentials('sentry-auth-token')` refers to the ID of the credentials just added to Jenkins.
- `sentry-cli releases propose-version` defaults to the commit SHA of the commit being deployed. To set this to a different version, modify `SENTRY_RELEASE` to the preferred version.

### Freestyle Project

> If you are using Freestyle projects, you need to add another build step after deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using Freestyle projects, you need to add another build step after deployment.
```

> 1. Make sure you add a binding to map the environment variable 'SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN' to the internal integration token credential you added in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make sure you add a binding to map the environment variable `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN` to the internal integration token credential you added in the previous step.
```

    [{% asset releases/jenkins/jenkins-freestyle-bindings.png alt="View of environment variable bindings." %}]({% asset releases/jenkins/jenkins-freestyle-bindings.png @path %})

2. Add the following build step after your deployment step:

    [{% asset releases/jenkins/jenkins-freestyle-shell.png alt="View of jenkins freestyle shell." %}]({% asset releases/jenkins/jenkins-freestyle-shell.png @path %})

    ```bash
    curl -sL https://sentry.io/get-cli/ | bash || true

    export SENTRY_ORG=sample-organization-slug
    export SENTRY_PROJECT=sample-project-slug
    export SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT=production
    export SENTRY_RELEASE=$(sentry-cli releases propose-version)

    sentry-cli releases new -p $SENTRY_PROJECT $SENTRY_RELEASE
    sentry-cli releases set-commits $SENTRY_RELEASE --auto
    sentry-cli releases files $SENTRY_RELEASE upload-sourcemaps path-to-sourcemaps-if-applicable
    sentry-cli releases finalize $SENTRY_RELEASE
    sentry-cli releases deploys $SENTRY_RELEASE new -e $SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT
    ```

    **Notes**: 

>     - If you not deploying a JavaScript project, omit the `upload-sourcemaps` line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If you're not deploying a JavaScript project, omit the `upload-sourcemaps` line.
```
